What Nutrition really needs to be.

First of i need to rant a little: 

a person who says "clean" nutrition is better than eating "junk" food
has no idea was hes taking about

this person will often give advice like this:

a person who says a banana after training is better than a beer also has no idea what context this is in

These two examples occur way to often, and are due to the lack of people to think hard. They just want a simple solution, fast and easy. Well fast and easy was never worth anything so if you are looking for such a solution neither you are worth anything, and have no fucking right to tell anyone about your one time finding that worked for you. Asshole.


Why are the people who argue like this wrong? 

They think nutrition can be monitored on its own. This is fundamentally wrong. If you want to improve health and energy (which you expect to improve by "better" nutrating yourself) you need to watch the standard 4 factors: Sleep, Nutrition, Physical Activity Level and Non Physical Activity Level. The idea is not to improve Nutrition on its own. Why not? Cause it fucking changes the other factors. Every time you state something like the 2 statements above, you first expect that all other factors are constant (which they never are). Sleep variates, nutrition variates, your physical and non physical activity variates. Secondly most people saying that the banana is better than beer dont even know what the nutrition differences in banana and a beer are. And the effects of the nutrionational effects on each person can differ massivly (because of habbits(habbit disruption most of the time causes temporarly stress).

In Example: Why you (really you asshole) cannot say for another person if the beer or the banana after training is better for him/her: 

1. assume the person trains late and goes to sleep after training.

You do not know this persons habbits. Maybe he never ate a banana before sleep. This might cause insuline spike. This could cause sleep in problems. (However there is to the best of my knowledge research that bananas have thymin or something of the kind that helps sleeping, also carbs before sleep can help). The beer on the other hand suggest research that you sleep in better. (however also there is research that with beer you sleep worse (alcohol -> less REM sleep) /Side Node/ sleeping long is just and indicator not the answer if it was more regenerative. My guess is that much REM sleep helps. 

You do not know what the person plans on doing after training: is he going to bed late? Is he jogging home? Is he driving a car home? Is he training again in 2 hours?


The facts on beer and bananas are not professional knowledge however i do not know if there is someone who understood the effects of these 2 food choices completly. I guess not, because people again want simple solution and gonna test a bunch of people let them eat bananas and beer and watch there reaction. That is an estimation of what happens no explanation. Estimatations are based on statistics sometimes they are right sometimes they are not. If the statistic is good it will be often right. However its never intended to find an explanation. 

What does that mean for you? You can estimate that if some food combination in a studie had a certain effect that it has a simular effect on you. However you do not know. So test for yourself, and keep everything else (sleep, (nutriton - 1 ), physical and non physical activity) as constant as possible while you test it. Therefore never try to start eating "clean", nutrition is mighty it will throw all factors around if you choose to switch up all your eating timings and food choices and macros and micros. Even if it has temporally an effect you do not know for certain which change outputed that. So be patient do 1 change for at least one week. See if the described effect for the study is working for you, and evaluate pros and cons according to the 4 base factors(sleep, nutrition, physical and non physical activity)



So as you can see it takes time. And it is hard work to figure this all out for yourself. Sorry but your easy, fast solution approach is leading nowhere and at best is not hurting anybody else's understanding process of nutrition. 

(Usually at this point in an argument people will argue its all genetics, or its not that complicated, or whatever else reason which results in  them not having to work on themselves (typical human sheep/survive logic))
Everything that is worth doing is hard work. Dont complain just improve.

HOWTO:

Given food choice options go through these:

What time?
How long till next physical activity?
(5-6 hours away -> more fat; 3 hours away -> more carbs)
When do you expect to sleep?
(1-2 hours ->  (can vary / individual)example: (no coffee, no huge amount of food)
Whats happening non-physical in the next hours?
(studying, chilling, meetings)
- i personally learn better and faster under much carbs but that could be random, and is most likly connected to my physical activity level. So if you have micro nutriant ideas for better learning that to me would be very intersting.
When do you eat again?
How is the food choice affecting the daily macro?
How is the food choise affecting the daily micro nutritions? 
( (can vary / individual) watch salt, iron, zink, potassium, )

This list of cource is not complete. I dont even know if the 4 factors are complete. Maybe there are more, like climate, hormon cycle etc.


Tips: 
From experience:
Ensure the 1 change in nutrition that is now consistent in your eating habbits, isnt negatifly effecting sleep, physical acitivty or non physical activity.

Macros rain supreme. (-> do macro/micro statistics till you know everyday what you macros are gonna be if you eat what you expect to eat)
Timing comes close after. (-> precooked)
After you have these 2 in control you can consider "clean" choices.

And Clean choices do not make you healthy. If they have a lasting consistent positive effect on your energy levels then you archived something, everything before is a waste of everyones time.

